# Cardiovascular-risk-factors-associated-to-mortality-recurrence-and-functional-status

The Cerebral Vascular Event (CVE) is one of the 10 leading causes of mortality worldwide, and is a major cause of physical and mental disability. causes of mortality worldwide, in addition to represent an important cause of physical and mental disability that implies deterioration of the patient's quality of life and high cost of care in the health sector. The timely identification and treatment of cardiovascular risk factors has an impact on mortality, recurrence and functional status after a CVE.

The general objective of this study is to determine the cardiovascular risk factors present in patients treated for CVE in the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico, as well as their relationship with mortality, recurrence and functional status after the CVE.

This is an observational, cross-sectional, descriptive and retrospective study in which 100 clinical records (database 'Base EVC.txt') of patients treated for CVE at the Regional Hospital of high speciality in the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico from 2015 to 2020 were reviewed. The inclusion criteria were men and women over 18 years of age with a diagnosis of CVE corroborated. A multiple logistic regression model was used for the explanatory variables, in order to find maximum likelihood estimators and standard deviations corresponding to mortality, recurrence and functional status after a CVE in the patients under study. From them, associations were obtained for the explanatory variables in the incidence of the likelihood the incidence of the probability of disorders after the study period. Wald statistics and their respective p-values were found in R studio (file titled 'Codigo (J).R' and in the graduate thesis titled 'DOC-20220908-WA0012' [document in Spanish]). Finally, regression trees for such factors (in the pictures 'Regression tree of the Mortality.png', 'Regression tree of the Recurrence.png' and 'Regression tree of the functional status.png') were developed to match the data and correlation tables (photo 'Correlation graph.png'). 
